Assets/Tokens
=============

The Golos network consist of several *assets*, *tokens* or
*currencies*. All assets are equal from a technological point of view
and come with more or less the same features, namely, they can be traded
against each other and can be transferred within seconds. The differences
between them are of economical nature.

<div class="container-fluid"><div class="row"><div class="col-md-6">

**User Issued Assets (UIAs)**

Freely traded tokens created by individuals used for a variety of
use-cases, such as stock, miles, event tickets or reputation points.

</div><div class="col-md-6">

**Market-Pegged Assets (MPA)**

These *SmartCoins* track the value of an underlaying asset, such as
Gold, or U.S. Dollar. Smartcoins can be created by anyone contracting
with the Golos ecosystem and putting sufficient GOLOS (at least 175%)
into the so called collateralized loans as *collateral*.

</div></div> <div class="row"><div class="col-md-6">

**Exchange Backed Assets (EBA)**

This kind of asset is commonly known as *I owe you* (IOU). It represents
the right to withdraw the *same amount* (minus fees) of a backing asset
from a *central* entity. Often they are issued by a bank, an exchange or
an other financial institute to represent deposit receipts.

</div><div class="col-md-6">

**Privatized Bit-Assets**

A flexible mixture between UIA and MPA that allows 3rd parties to create
their own customized MPAs.

</div></div> <div class="row"><div class="col-md-6">

**Fee Backed Assets**

An FBA is a token that pays you a fraction of the transaction fees
generated by a particular feature that has been funded independent of
BitShares.

</div><div class="col-md-6">

**Prediction Market Asset**

A prediction market is similar to a MPA, that trades between 0 and 1,
only. After an event, a price feed can be used to determine which option
to take and participants can settle at this price.

</div><div class="col-md-6"> </div></div></div>