User Issued Assets
==================

Golos allows individuals and companies to create and issue their own
tokens for anything they can imagine. The potential use cases for so
called user-issued assets (UIA) are innumerable. On the one hand, UIAs
can be used as simple event tickets deposited on the customers mobile
phone to pass the entrance of a concert. On the other hand, they can be
used for crowd funding, ownership tracking or even to sell equity of a
company in form of stock.

All you need to do is click in order to create a new UIA is a few mouse
clicks, define your preferred parameters for your coin, such as supply,
precision, symbol, description and see your coin's birth after only a
few seconds. From that point on, you can issue some of your coins to
whomever you want, sell them and see them instantly **traded against any
other existing coin** on Golos.

Unless you want some restriction. As the issuer, you have certain
privileges over your coin, for instance, you can allow trading only in
certain market pairs and define who actually is allowed to hold your
coin by using white- and blacklists. Of course, an issuer can opt-out of
his privileges indefinitely for the sake of trust and reputation.

As the owner of that coin, you don't need to take care of all the
technical details of blockchain technology, such as distributed
consensus algorithms, blockchain development or integration. You don't
even need to run any mining equipment or servers, at all.

So what's the drawback?

There is a drawback in this scenario, namely, a centralized issuance of
new tokens. To some extend, this could be managed by a hierarchical
multi-signature issuer account that prevents any single entity from
issuing new coins but instead requires a consensus among an arbitrary
set of people to agree on any changes to the coin.

Obviously, the regulations that apply to each kind of token vary widely
and are often different in every jurisdiction. Hence, Golos comes
with tools that allow issuers to remain compliant with all applicable
regulations when issuing assets assuming regulators allow such assets in
the first place.

Use Cases
---------

-   Reward Points
-   Fan Credits
-   Flight Miles
-   Event Tickets
-   Digital Property
-   Crowd-Funding
-   Company Shares