Trading
=======

This page will give a very quick introduction on how to interpret the
terms used by the DEX and how trading pairs are presented.

Pairs
-----

In Golos, almost any asset can be traded with all other assets. Once
we have picked two assets, we usually refer to a *market pair*. For
instance, we can trade USD against EUR in the USD:EUR pair.

For sake of consistency, we will use the generalized terms *base* and
*quote* such that pairs are represented as:

    quote : base

and for instance with *base* being USD and *quote* being EUR, denote the
EUR:USD pair.

Market Overview
---------------

The market overview that can be access via the explorer, shows a set of
predefined default markets. Note that the list of default markets may
vary depending on the wallet provider. Further markets can be added
using the *Find Markets* tab. Adding a *Star* to your favorite markets
will make it appear in your list of default markets.

Market
------

When entering a market, you will presented with either the market depth or the price chart depending on your settings.

You can switch between your views by pressing the corresponding button
as highlighted below.

Order Books
-----------

The order book consists of an *ask* and a *bid* side. Since trading
pairs do not have a preferred orientation, and can be flipped, the
following table shall give an overview of ask/bid and the corresponding
buy/sell operations for each side:

  Side          Sell       Buy
  ------------- ---------- ----------
  Ask           *quote*    *base*
  Bid           *base*     *quote*

Obviously, what is on the bid side of the USD:EUR pair will be on the
ask side on the EUR:USD pair. Of course prices are internally
represented as fractions, and thus results in both pairs being
identical.

Trading
-------

To place a trading order, it is required to fill the form on either the
*ask* or the *bid* side (respectively, *buy* or *sell* side). You will
need to define a *price* and an *amount* to sell/buy. The cost for this
order will be calculated automatically. Note that there will be an
additional fee required to actually place the order.

Once the order is filled (i.e. someone sold/bought your offer), your
account will be credited by the corresponding asset.

Unfilled orders can be canceled at any time.

Order Matching
--------------

Golos matches orders on a first-come, first-serve basis and
gives the buyer the best price possible up to the limit (also known as
"walking the book"). Rather than charging *unpredictable fees* from
market overlap (as has been in the previous network), the network
charges a defined fee based upon the size of the order matched and the
assets involved. Each asset issuer gets an opportunity to configure
their fees.