Proposed Transactions
=====================

The Graphene technology allows users to *propose* a transaction on the
blockchain which requires approval of multiple accounts in order to
execute.

At any time, a proposal can be approved in a single transaction if
sufficient signatures are available (see `proposal_update_operation` as
constructed by the `approve_proposal` call), as long as the authority
tree to approve the proposal does not exceed the maximum recursion
depth. In practice, however, it is easier to use proposals to acquire
all approvals, as this leverages on-chain notification of all relevant
parties that their approval is required. Off-chain multi-signature
approval requires some off-chain mechanism for acquiring several
signatures on a single transaction. This off-chain synchronization can
be avoided using proposals.

The user proposes a transaction, then signatory accounts use add or
remove their approvals from this operation. When a sufficient number of
approvals have been granted, the operations in the proposal are
evaluated. Even if the transaction fails, the proposal will be kept
until the expiration time, at which point, if sufficient approval is
granted, the transaction will be evaluated a final time. This allows
transactions which will not execute successfully until a given time to
still be executed through the proposal mechanism. The first time the
proposed transaction succeeds, the proposal will be regarded as
resolved, and all future updates will be invalid.

The proposal system allows for arbitrarily complex or recursively nested
authorities. If a recursive authority (i.e. an authority which requires
approval of 'nested' authorities on other accounts) is required for a
proposal, then a second proposal can be used to grant the nested
authority's approval. That is, a second proposal can be created which,
when sufficiently approved, adds the approval of a nested authority to
the first proposal. This multiple-proposal scheme can be used to acquire
approval for an arbitrarily deep authority tree.

Note that each account in the figure can carry a **different weight**.
An example of how to setup your permissions accordingly is given in
account-permissions.

